docs/TESTING.md, before:

# Testing Guide

## Code Separation and Testability

The codebase follows good separation of concerns, making it highly testable:

### Architecture Layers

1. **Handlers** (`internal/handlers/`)
   - Thin HTTP adapters
   - Parse requests, validate input, handle HTTP concerns
   - Delegate to repositories/services
   - **Testability**: High - can mock repositories/services

2. **Services** (`internal/services/`)
   - Business logic and external integrations
   - OIDC authentication flows
   - **Testability**: Medium-High - some methods make HTTP calls (test with httptest.Server)

3. **Repositories** (`internal/database/`)
   - Data access layer
   - Pure database operations
   - **Testability**: Medium - requires database or sqlmock for unit tests

4. **Models** (`internal/models/`)
   - Data structures and domain types
   - **Testability**: High - pure data, no dependencies

5. **Middleware** (`internal/middleware/`)
   - HTTP middleware (auth, logging, CORS)
   - **Testability**: High - standard http.Handler interface

6. **Config** (`internal/config/`)
   - Configuration loading
   - **Testability**: High - can set environment variables

### Separation Analysis

✅ **Good Separation:**
- Handlers don't contain business logic - they delegate to services/repositories
- Repositories are pure data access - no business logic
- Services contain business logic separated from HTTP concerns
- Models are simple data structures

⚠️ **Areas with External Dependencies:**
- `Provider.GetLoginConfig()` makes HTTP calls to OIDC discovery endpoints
  - Can be tested with `httptest.Server` for integration tests
  - Unit tests can test fallback logic without HTTP
- `JWKSManager` makes HTTP calls to fetch JWKS
  - Cache logic can be tested separately
  - HTTP fetching can use `httptest.Server`

### Testing Strategy

#### Unit Tests (Current Focus)
- ✅ Models - Data validation, JSON serialization
- ✅ Config - Environment variable loading
- ✅ Handlers - Request/response handling with mocks
- ✅ Middleware - HTTP handler behavior
- ✅ Services - Business logic (excluding external HTTP calls)

#### Integration Tests (Future)
- Repositories with real database
- Services with real HTTP endpoints (httptest.Server)
- End-to-end API tests

### Test Coverage Goals

- **Target**: >80% coverage for non-external code
- **Focus**: Unit test all business logic and HTTP handling
- **Exclude**: External HTTP calls (test separately with httptest)

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
go test ./...

# Run with coverage
go test -cover ./...

# Run specific package
go test ./internal/handlers/...

# Run with verbose output
go test -v ./...
```

## Test Structure

Tests follow Go conventions:
- Table-driven tests for multiple scenarios
- `t.Parallel()` for independent tests
- Mock dependencies using interfaces or test doubles
- Test both success and error paths

## Manual Usability Testing

While automated E2E tests are deferred (OIDC authentication blocks automation), the following manual checks should be performed to catch usability regressions:

### Todo Edit & Tags

These checks verify that editing todos and managing tags works smoothly without focus loss or unwanted refreshes:

1. **Add-tag focus preservation**
   - Edit a todo (click Edit button)
   - Focus the "Add tag" input field
   - Type a tag name and press Enter
   - **Verify:** The tag is added AND the "Add tag" input still has focus (you can immediately type another tag without clicking back into the input)

2. **No refresh under edit**
   - Edit a todo (click Edit button)
   - Focus the "Add tag" input (or any other field in the edit form)
   - Wait **at least 5 seconds** (past one polling interval)
   - **Verify:** You remain in edit mode, the focused field still has focus, and you can continue typing without re-focusing

3. **Refresh after save** (optional)
   - Edit a todo and save changes
   - **Verify:** The list refreshes and shows updated status (e.g., "Processing..." if reprocessing was triggered)

**Testing environment:** Run these checks against your local stack (e.g., using `docker-compose up` from the root directory).

Commit message:

Enhance CORS and rate limiting configurations, add gocyclo for complexity checks
- Updated .golangci.yml to include gocyclo for cyclomatic complexity checks with a minimum threshold of 10.
- Added CORS and rate limit configuration commands to the configure CLI, allowing dynamic updates to CORS settings and rate limits.
- Introduced new database models and migrations for CORS and rate limit configurations, ensuring persistent storage of these settings.
- Refactored middleware to utilize the new request package for user context retrieval, improving code consistency and readability.
- Enhanced testing coverage for new configurations and middleware changes, ensuring robust validation of functionality.

These changes improve the application's configurability and maintainability, facilitating better control over CORS and rate limiting behaviors.

docs/TESTING.md, after:

# Testing Guide

## Code Separation and Testability

The codebase follows good separation of concerns, making it highly testable:

### Architecture Layers

1. **Handlers** (`internal/handlers/`)
   - Thin HTTP adapters
   - Parse requests, validate input, handle HTTP concerns
   - Delegate to repositories/services
   - **Testability**: High - can mock repositories/services

2. **Services** (`internal/services/`)
   - Business logic and external integrations
   - OIDC authentication flows
   - **Testability**: Medium-High - some methods make HTTP calls (test with httptest.Server)

3. **Repositories** (`internal/database/`)
   - Data access layer
   - Pure database operations
   - **Testability**: Medium - requires database or sqlmock for unit tests

4. **Models** (`internal/models/`)
   - Data structures and domain types
   - **Testability**: High - pure data, no dependencies

5. **Middleware** (`internal/middleware/`)
   - HTTP middleware (auth, logging, CORS)
   - **Testability**: High - standard http.Handler interface

6. **Config** (`internal/config/`)
   - Configuration loading
   - **Testability**: High - can set environment variables

### Separation Analysis

✅ **Good Separation:**
- Handlers don't contain business logic - they delegate to services/repositories
- Repositories are pure data access - no business logic
- Services contain business logic separated from HTTP concerns
- Models are simple data structures

⚠️ **Areas with External Dependencies:**
- `Provider.GetLoginConfig()` makes HTTP calls to OIDC discovery endpoints
  - Can be tested with `httptest.Server` for integration tests
  - Unit tests can test fallback logic without HTTP
- `JWKSManager` makes HTTP calls to fetch JWKS
  - Cache logic can be tested separately
  - HTTP fetching can use `httptest.Server`

### Testing Strategy

#### Unit Tests (Current Focus)
- ✅ Models - Data validation, JSON serialization
- ✅ Config - Environment variable loading
- ✅ Handlers - Request/response handling with mocks
- ✅ Middleware - HTTP handler behavior
- ✅ Services - Business logic (excluding external HTTP calls)

#### Integration Tests (Future)
- Repositories with real database
- Services with real HTTP endpoints (httptest.Server)
- End-to-end API tests

### Test Coverage Goals

- **Target**: >80% coverage for non-external code
- **Focus**: Unit test all business logic and HTTP handling
- **Exclude**: External HTTP calls (test separately with httptest)

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
go test ./...

# Run with coverage
go test -cover ./...

# Run specific package
go test ./internal/handlers/...

# Run with verbose output
go test -v ./...
```

## Cyclomatic Complexity

We enforce a **cyclomatic complexity** limit via `gocyclo` in golangci-lint (see [.golangci.yml](.golangci.yml)). The threshold is **10**.

- **What it measures:** The number of linearly independent paths through a function (each `if`, `for`, `case`, `&&`, `||` adds to complexity).
- **How to fix violations:** Extract helpers (e.g. small functions for error handling, validation, or branches), split large conditionals, or break up long functions. Prefer table-driven tests and extracted helpers in tests to keep complexity low.
- **CI:** Pre-commit (golangci-lint hook), local `make lint`, and GitHub Actions all run golangci-lint, including gocyclo. Fix any new gocyclo issues before merging.

## Test Structure

Tests follow Go conventions:
- Table-driven tests for multiple scenarios
- `t.Parallel()` for independent tests
- Mock dependencies using interfaces or test doubles
- Test both success and error paths

## Manual Usability Testing

While automated E2E tests are deferred (OIDC authentication blocks automation), the following manual checks should be performed to catch usability regressions:

### Todo Edit & Tags

These checks verify that editing todos and managing tags works smoothly without focus loss or unwanted refreshes:

1. **Add-tag focus preservation**
   - Edit a todo (click Edit button)
   - Focus the "Add tag" input field
   - Type a tag name and press Enter
   - **Verify:** The tag is added AND the "Add tag" input still has focus (you can immediately type another tag without clicking back into the input)

2. **No refresh under edit**
   - Edit a todo (click Edit button)
   - Focus the "Add tag" input (or any other field in the edit form)
   - Wait **at least 5 seconds** (past one polling interval)
   - **Verify:** You remain in edit mode, the focused field still has focus, and you can continue typing without re-focusing

3. **Refresh after save** (optional)
   - Edit a todo and save changes
   - **Verify:** The list refreshes and shows updated status (e.g., "Processing..." if reprocessing was triggered)

**Testing environment:** Run these checks against your local stack (e.g., using `docker-compose up` from the root directory).
